*Tyler, John, 1841-1889* (ID: 32020850): John Tyler was a Union officer during the Civil War and during Reconstruction. 

Born on July 19, 1841, in Michigan, Tyler grew up in Detroit and volunteered for military service during the Civil War. Commissioned as an officer in the Seventeenth Michigan Infantry Regiment, he rose from the rank of lieutenant to brevet (honorary) major by the end of the war. After being discharged from the volunteer Union forces, Tyler was commissioned as a lieutenant in the regular U.S. Army’s 43rd Infantry Regiment, and served as an assistant adjutant in Mississippi during occupation duty in the late 1860s. 

He was discharged from the army in the 1870s and moved to Buffalo, New York, where he received an appointment as a U.S. customs collector. He died in 1889 at the age of 48. Tyler was married to Frances Annie Barrows and had at least one child. He is buried in Elmwood Cemetery in Detroit, Michigan. 

(“Michigan in the Civil War,” Bentley Historical Library: University of Michigan; 1st Regiment of Infantry, 1873, <i>U.S. Army Registers, 1798-1969</i>; FindaGrave; 1880 U.S. Census, Buffalo, New York, District 163, p. 147D)

John Tyler belonged to the following social groups:

*United States. Army. Infantry Regiment, 43rd (1866-1869)* (ID: 32122534): The 43rd Regiment, United States Infantry (1866–1869) was organized on September 21, 1866 as part of the Veteran Reserve Corps under the command of Bvt. Maj. Gen. J. C. Robinson. It was formed under an act of Congress dated July 28, 1866 and was comprised of soldiers who were wounded during the war to garrison cities, fortifications, and perform other non-frontline duties. Under the act of Congress dated March 3, 1869 to reduce the Army’s post-war manpower, it was consolidated with the 1st Regiment, United States Infantry on April 8, 1869. (Heitman, <i>Historical Register of the United States Army</i>, 69; United States Army Center of Military History)

*Adjutants* (ID: 25007624): "A military officer who does office work and who is responsible for rules and punishment among the lower ranks." (Cambridge Dictionary)

*Swann, Thomas T.* (ID: 32021004): 

*Ames, Adelbert, 1835-1933* (ID: 52648): Adelbert Ames served as a governor and U.S. senator of Mississippi during the Reconstruction era.  He was born in East Thomaston (modern-day Rockland), Maine, in 1835. As a boy, Ames spent time working on various merchant vessels, receiving training in seamanship. He entered the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1856, graduating in May 1861, at the start of the Civil War. Commissioned as a second lieutenant, the young Ames was promoted to first lieutenant barely over a week later and served with the 5th U.S. Artillery during the battle of First Bull Run at Manassas, Virginia, on July 21, 1861. Despite being wounded in the leg, Ames stayed by his cannons. His actions at Bull Run led him to receive the brevet (honorary) rank of major and, in 1893 (more than thirty years later), the Medal of Honor. 

Ames recovered from his wound and returned to the front lines in 1862, serving with distinction as an artillery officer during the Peninsula Campaign near Richmond. Seeking better promotion potential, Ames sought an infantry command. Through those efforts, in August 1862, he received command of the 20th Maine Infantry Regiment, and led that unit in combat during the Battle of Fredericksburg in December 1862. In May 1863, he volunteered to serve as a staff officer for Major General George G. Meade, which helped him achieve the rank of brigadier general that month. With this promotion, Ames left the 20th Maine to his second-in-command, Lieutenant Colonel Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain, who gained great fame commanding the regiment at Little Round Top during the Battle of Gettysburg in July 1863. Ames’ own performance at Gettysburg was highly praised, as his division successfully defended the Union position at Cemetery Hill. 

After Gettysburg, Ames’ division was transferred to the Department of the South. Over the next two years, he commanded Union troops during campaigns in Florida, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Virginia. He received a brevet promotion to major general for his actions at Fort Fisher, North Carolina, in March 1865.

After the Civil War, Ames became involved in federal Reconstruction efforts. In 1868, he was appointed the provisional governor of Mississippi. Ames proved sympathetic to the plight of African Americans in the south. He sought to protect Black civil rights and appointed Mississippi’s first African American public officials. In 1870, after Mississippi was readmitted into the Union, Ames ran for U.S. senator for the state as a Republican and won. He served in that capacity from February 1870 to January 1874, achieving the reputation as a strong public speaker. While serving as a senator in Washington, D.C., Ames met and married Blanche Butler, daughter of Union general Benjamin F. Butler, under whom Ames had served during the war. Ames and his wife had six children over the course of their marriage.

In 1873, Ames ran for governor of Mississippi. His chief rival was James L. Alcorn, a former Confederate general who had been a Whig before the Civil War and joined the Republican Party afterwards. Ames won the election and worked diligently to improve Mississippi’s financial and social situation. In 1874, Democrats in Mississippi coordinated a campaign of violence against African Americans and white Republicans in the state, to secure political control in Mississippi. Unable to militarily suppress the white supremacist terror campaign, Ames signed a truce with Democratic leaders in Mississippi to reduce the violence and allow a peaceful election. Groups of white supremacists abandoned the truce and resumed their intimidation tactics against Republicans and Black Mississippians during the following elections, leading to a surge of Democratic politicians taking office.

In 1876, the conservative Democrat majority in the Mississippi legislature tried to impeach Ames and many other Republican officials with trumped up charges of corruption. Despite a strong political force against him, Ames’ critics were unable to provide any evidence of impropriety. Nevertheless, because impeachment was politically driven, Ames could see that his future as governor was over and any effort on his part to legally defend himself would be personally and financially taxing. He and his attorneys reached an agreement with Democratic leaders to resign his office in exchange for dropping the legal charges. On March 29, 1876, after Democrats cancelled their legal proceedings, Ames vacated his position.

Ames left Mississippi and went into business in Minnesota with his father and brother. A short time later, he relocated to New York City and then Massachusetts, overseeing mills and various business interests. When the Spanish-American War erupted in 1898, Ames volunteered for service and was appointed brigadier general of volunteers. Although over sixty years old, Ames joined the field campaign in Cuba and performed well.

Ames resumed his business ventures in the early twentieth century. He lived until 1933, dying at age 97. He is buried in Lowell, Massachusetts. 

(Wikipedia)

Adelbert Ames belonged to the following social groups:

*Military Headquarters* (ID: 95870): A military headquarters is the main center of control for a unit and typically revolves around that unit’s highest ranking officer. The term headquarters often refers to a physical location, however it is not always a permanent facility. A commanding officer can establish a headquarters anywhere that best allows oversight of the unit. Frequently during the Civil War military leaders relocated their headquarters each day as their armies moved. Union general John Pope famously declared that he would make his “headquarters in the saddle.” The comment was more symbolic than literal, but reflected how a headquarters centered on the commander's location and was subject to his discretion in how and where to conduct official duties. Pope’s critics replied that he was making his headquarters where his “hindquarters” should be, representing the more traditional view of a headquarters being a stationary command center strategically located for the effective management of a staff and army. (Cambridge Dictionary)

*United States. Army. Military District, 4th--Department of Mississippi * (ID: 32124456): The Department of Mississippi was a sub-district of the United States Army’s 4th Military District. It was established on April 6, 1867 by General Orders No. 3 issued from Maj. Gen. Edward O. C. Ord. General, commander of the 4th Military District. It was first commanded by Brig. Gen. Alvan C. Gillem of the 24th United States Infantry and its headquarters was located at Vicksburg. It was responsible for the administration of the Army’s occupation forces in Mississippi and charged with protecting freedmen’s rights, keeping the peace, and overseeing the election of a new state government loyal to the federal government in Washington D. C. It was abolished on February 23, 1870 when Mississippi was readmitted into the Union after adopting a new constitution and ratifying the Fourteenth Amendment. (<i>Daily Arkansas Gazette</i>, April 12, 1867; Bradley, <i>The Army and Reconstruction 1865–1877</i>; Eicher, <i>Civil War High Commands</i>, 854-855; Encyclopedia of Arkansas; Wikipedia)

*Mississippi--Warren County. Vicksburg* (ID: 51788): Located in Warren County, Mississippi, Vicksburg was founded under the name Fort Nogales as early as 1790 in what was then unincorporated territory. In 1798, upon creation of Mississippi Territory, it was renamed Walnut Hills. On April 1, 1799, Walnut Hills became part of the newly created Pickering County (later renamed Jefferson County on January 10, 1802), until the creation of Claiborne County on January 26, 1802. It then became part of its current county of Warren on December 21, 1809. Upon its incorporation on January 29th, 1825, it was renamed Vicksburg. Vicksburg became the county seat in 1836 and remains today. (Rowland, <i>Mississippi</i>, 858; Wikipedia; Britannica; Atlas of Historical County Boundaries)

*Hynes, John R.* (ID: 32020933): 

*United States. Army. Infantry Regiment, 24th (1866-1869)* (ID: 32122246): The 24th Regiment, United States Infantry (1866–1869) was organized as the 2nd Battalion, 15th Infantry on May 4, 1861, by direction of President Abraham Lincoln. On September 21, 1866 It was re-designated as the 24th Infantry under an act of Congress to reorganize the Army passed on July 28, 1866. It was commanded by Bvt. Maj. Gen Alvan C. Gillem and was stationed in Mississippi to perform peace-keeping duties during Reconstruction. Under an act of Congress to reduce the Army’s post-war manpower passed on March 3, 1869 it was consolidated with the 29th Infantry to form the 11th Regiment, United States Infantry. (Heitman, <i>Historical Register of the United States Army</i>, 61-62; Bradley, <i>The Army and Reconstruction 1865-1877</i>, United States Army Center of Military History; “<i>Roster from First Lieutenant Ira Quinby to Mississippi Governor Adelbert Ames; December 1868</i>”, Civil War and Reconstruction Governors of Mississippi, mdah_784-29506-05-01)

*Mississippi--Hinds County. Jackson* (ID: 51785): Located in Hinds County, Jackson was founded in 1822 and serves as one of two county seats of Hinds County and the state capital of Mississippi. (Britannica)

*Gillem, Alvan C. (Alvan Cullem), 1830-1875* (ID: 32022984): Alvan Cullem Gillem was born on July 29, 1830 in Gainesboro, Jackson County, Tennessee. In 1847 he entered the United States Military Academy at West Point, graduating eleventh in his class in 1851. He married Margret A. Jones on July 23, 1855 and had two children. In the years before the war, he served as a 2nd Lieutenant in an artillery battery against the Seminoles in Florida and later served in garrisons on the Texas frontier. 

Promoted to Captain on May 14, 1861 he served as Brig. Gen. George Thomas’ quartermaster at the Battle of Mill Springs in January 1862, earning a brevet promotion to Major for gallantry. Later, in April 1862, he served as Chief Quartermaster and commanded the siege artillery in Maj. Gen. Don Carlos Buell’s Army of the Ohio during the Battle of Shiloh. 

He received a brevet promotion to Colonel in the Regular Army and on May 13, 1862 and appointed commander of the 10th Regiment, Tennessee Infantry (Union). He also served briefly as the Provost Marshall of Nashville during this time. In 1863 Andrew Johnson, then the Military Governor of Tennessee, appointed him to command the newly formed Governor’s Guard and later, in June 1863, appointed him as the Adjutant General of the state. During this period, he also commanded troops guarding the Nashville and Northwest Railroad.

On August 17, 1863 he received a permanent promotion to Brigadier General of Volunteers. Through 1864 he commanded cavalry operations against Confederate forces in Eastern Tennessee. On December 16, 1864 he received a brevet promotion to Lieutenant Colonel in the Regular Army. In January 1865 he served as Vice President of Tennessee’s constitutional convention in and served in its first legislature under the state’s new constitution. 

On March 13, 1865 he received a brevet promotion to Brigadier General in the Regular Army and as a Major General of Volunteers. Five days later, On March 18, 1865 he led the division of cavalry on Stoneman’s Raid into Tennessee, Virginia, and North Carolina to destroy what remained of the South’s capability to produce war materials and to cut-off Gen. Robert E. Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia from escaping the pursuing forces of Lt. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant.

After the war, he received a permanent commission as a Major General of Volunteers on November 3, 1865. On July 28, 1866 he received a permanent commission as a Colonel in the Regular Army and assumed command of the 24th Regiment, United States Infantry. 

On June 24, 1867 he was appointed as the Assistant Commissioner of the Freedmen’s Bureau for Mississippi. Later that year on December 28, 1865 he was appointed as the commander of the Fourth Military District, assuming command on Jan 9, 1868. He commanded the district until June 4, 1868, returning to command again from June 30, 1868 until March 9, 1869. He next took command of the 11th Regiment, United States Infantry on March 15, 1869.

Transferred to California, he took command of the 1st Regiment, United States Cavalry on December 15, 1870. In April 1873 he was placed in overall command of the troops engaged in the Modoc War. Forces under his command suffered heavy casualties in a surprise attack by the Modoc in the Battle of Sand Butte on April 26, 1873. As a result of this defeat, he was relieved of command On May 2, 1873.

He became ill and in January 1875, took sick leave to Tennessee to recuperate. He died on Dec 2, 1875 at the Soldier’s Rest in Nashville. He was buried at Mount Olivet Cemetery in Nashville, Tennessee. His wife, Margaret, applied for a Civil War widow’s pension on June 5, 1876. 

(Eicher, <i>Civil War High Commands</i>, 255; Warner, <i>Generals in Blue</i>, 175–176; <i>United States General Index to Pensions, 1861–1934</i>; Encyclopedia of Arkansas; Wikipedia)

Alvan Cullem Gillem belonged to the following social groups:


*Hospitals--Mississippi. State Hospital* (ID: 105689): Founded in 1848, the Mississippi State Hospital was a state-funded institution in Jackson, Mississippi, for people suffering from psychological disorders. First proposed by Governor Albert Gallatin Brown in 1846, the initial facility was constructed on a five-acre lot with funds provided by the state legislature. Shortly afterwards, the hospital’s commissioners constructed a larger facility north of Jackson (currently the campus of the University of Mississippi Medical Center in Jackson) with guidance and support from noted humanitarian Dorothea L. Dix, who personally appealed to Mississippi legislators for better mental health treatment. (Before the nineteenth century, people with psychiatric problems were often ignored, abandoned, or jailed as public nuisances.) Named the Mississippi State Lunatic Asylum, the four-story hospital began taking patients in 1855. Originally intended for white patients, the hospital’s administrators and board of trustees began admitting a small number of African Americans—free and slave—for treatment in 1856.

The state hospital housed and treated thousands of mental health patients (often referred to as lunatics in the vernacular of the nineteenth century). The number of patients rose from 70 in 1855 to nearly 500 by 1890. Most people admitted for treatment in the 1850s were women in their 20’s and 30’s, sent by family members for causes listed as “unlucky in business,” “disappointed in love,” and “feeblemindedness.” Patients were also placed into the state hospital for behavior associated to menstruation, overactive sexual interests or activities, drug or alcohol use, and other behaviors deemed socially or religiously inappropriate. Not all patients were admitted at the behest of family members, as local citizens could file complaints against neighbors or other residents, prompting their local sheriff to detain the suspected “lunatic” and present them to a county probate court for a jury to decide if admission to the asylum was necessary.

The facility and its care for psychological disorders were considered advanced for the mid-nineteenth century and many patients were employed in jobs, such as carpentry, farming, manufacturing, and other laboring tasks on the hospital grounds. However, some treatments for psychological disorders in that era included mechanical restraints, physical punishment, and isolation. As many as 7,000 patients died at the state hospital site at Jackson between 1855 and its 1935, when the Mississippi government closed the state hospital at Jackson and opened a new facility at a different location. Some deaths were due to poorly understood sanitation or disease problems, such as tainted water supplies, as well as yellow fever and malaria epidemics, but many other deaths occurred due to the patients remaining at the facility until they died of natural causes. The hospital was seen as a permanent residence for those deemed “incurable.”

During the Civil War, Union soldiers temporarily occupied the state hospital when they captured Jackson. The troops confiscated property from the facility, including killing livestock held on the hospital grounds. However, the hospital remained active during the war, and was improved in 1870 with the appointment of Dr. William Compton as superintendent. He lobbied for better funds and treatment for patients, particularly for African Americans, although the facility was segregated by race and gender.

The state hospital continued to expand and treat a growing number of patients well into the twentieth century. By the mid-1920s it housed 2,000 patients. Due to its deteriorating conditions after decades of operation, the Mississippi legislature constructed a new facility in Rankin County, which opened in 1935. The Mississippi State Hospital at Jackson closed its doors that same year. (Lucius M. Lampton, “Whitfield (Mississippi State Hospital),” Mississippi Encyclopedia; Sudhakar Madakasira, “History of Mississippi Psychiatry: A Dark Past Unearthed on UMMC Grounds,” <i>The Journal of the Mississippi Psychiatric Association</i>)

*Mississippi--Auditor's Office* (ID: 32086550): Operating at the state level, the Mississippi State Auditor is an appointed official of the state's executive branch and responsible for overseeing the financial operations of the state. (Wikipedia)

