*Military Headquarters* (ID: 95870): A military headquarters is the main center of control for a unit and typically revolves around that unit’s highest ranking officer. The term headquarters often refers to a physical location, however it is not always a permanent facility. A commanding officer can establish a headquarters anywhere that best allows oversight of the unit. Frequently during the Civil War military leaders relocated their headquarters each day as their armies moved. Union general John Pope famously declared that he would make his “headquarters in the saddle.” The comment was more symbolic than literal, but reflected how a headquarters centered on the commander's location and was subject to his discretion in how and where to conduct official duties. Pope’s critics replied that he was making his headquarters where his “hindquarters” should be, representing the more traditional view of a headquarters being a stationary command center strategically located for the effective management of a staff and army. (Cambridge Dictionary)

*United States. Army* (ID: 71916): The United States Army is the military land force of the United States of America. During the American Civil War it was also referred to as the Union Army, Federal Army, or Northern Army. Its primary military objective during the war was the restoration and preservation of the United States through the defeat of secessionist forces. The United States Army traces its roots to the Continental Army, created in 1775 during the American Revolution. Following American independence, the new United States severely reduced the size of the army due to distrust of permanent standing military forces. The small regular army generally handled military operations against Native Americans and for coastal defense. State authorities were expected to support the country’s military needs with their militias, or by raising volunteer units, temporarily activated for federal service. 

At the outbreak of the Civil War, the United States regular army consisted of barely more than 16,000 soldiers, scattered across the country (primarily at coastal defenses and forts established in the territories) among ten infantry regiments, four artillery regiments, two cavalry regiments, two dragoon regiments, and one regiment of mounted rifles. Roughly 20% of the army’s officers and enlisted resigned their positions to fight for the Confederacy. After Southern troops attacked and captured Fort Sumter in South Carolina, President Abraham Lincoln called for 75,000 volunteers to expand the army and defeat the Confederates. The government continued to issue subsequent requests for volunteers as the war progressed. As with established practice, the states were to recruit the volunteers and provide them for federal service. Initial enlistments were for 90 days, but eventually enlistment terms were expanded, typically for three years. In total, more than 2,000,000 men served in the United States Army during the course of the Civil War. Of those, only around 60,000 were part of the regular army. The overwhelming majority were in state-based units. Most soldiers were volunteers, however the federal government began drafting men in 1862, as the army’s campaigns continued and volunteer numbers dwindled. In total, around 46,000 Union soldiers (about 5.5%) were draftees. 

Approximately two-thirds of the soldiers in the United States Army during the Civil War were native-born white citizens. Around 100,000 were from states within the Confederacy. Immigrants made up about 25% of Union soldiers, with Germans and Irish immigrants being among the most prominent. The army also included soldiers of different ethnicities, including more than 3,000 Native American soldiers. In 1863, the Union army began formally accepting African American soldiers—in segregated units—and by the end of the war, around than 179,000 had served in the United States Army uniform. 

When hostilities ended in June 1865, approximately 110,000 had been killed in combat or succumbed to wounds, more than 220,000 had died of disease, and roughly 30,000 had died in prison camps. (Wikipedia; National Park Service)

*Mississippi--Hinds County. Jackson* (ID: 51785): Located in Hinds County, Jackson was founded in 1822 and serves as one of two county seats of Hinds County and the state capital of Mississippi. (Britannica)

*United States--War Department. Subsistence Department* (ID: 32039077): Dating back to the commissary-general office in the American Revolutionary War, the Subsistence Department formally came into being by legislation in 1818. It was responsible for procuring, storing, and providing food for the United States Army. The department remained small during the early nineteenth century, except for a temporary expansion during the Mexican War. Then, in July 1861, the department was enlarged to support the rapidly growing Union Army during the Civil War. The commissary-general in charge of the department attained the rank of brigadier general, and, by the end of the war, consisted of over 550 personnel. The department downsized against following the Civil War, but retained its role as the chief supplier of foodstuffs to the U.S. Army. (United States Army Center of Military History)

*Risdon, Orlando Charles (O. C.), 1840-1894* (ID: 32027385): Orlando Charles Risdon was a Union officer who commanded African American troops in Mississippi during the Civil War. 

Born on May 8, 1840, in Warrensville, Ohio, Risdon became a carpenter and wagon manufacturer as a young man. When the Civil War broke out in 1861, he volunteered for Union military service. He served as a private in the Nineteenth Ohio Infantry for three months that summer, and then joined the Forty-Second Ohio Infantry in October 1861 with the rank of first lieutenant. Risdon saw combat in Virginia, Kentucky, and Mississippi, before participating the Vicksburg campaign in Mississippi in 1863. He was wounded in the head and hip during fighting at Vicksburg in May 1863. 

Union officials began recruiting African Americans for military service in federally-occupied portions of the south in early 1863, and Risdon accepted a commission as lieutenant colonel in the Third Mississippi Volunteers (African Descent). The regiment conducted garrison duty at Milliken’s Ben and Goodrich’s Landing in Louisiana until early 1864. In March 1864, the regiment was redesignated the Fifty-Third United States Colored Troops. When its original commander, Colonel Richard H. Ballinger, resigned, Risdon took command of the regiment and received a promotion to colonel. He led the unit through several scouting missions and skirmishes in Mississippi and Arkansas in 1864, returning to garrison duty at Vicksburg, Mississippi, in February 1865 and remaining there until the end of the war. By the end of the war, Risdon was a brevet (honorary) brigadier general for bravery during his military service. He remained in Mississippi until January 1866, participating in Reconstruction occupation duty and serving as paymaster of the Southwestern Division. 

After separating from the army, Risdon returned to Ohio and took up a partnership producing cheese. Then, in 1873, he became sheriff of Portage County, and earned a reputation for integrity. After serving two terms as sheriff, Risdon purchased part of a grocery business and eventually established a successful company known as Risdon & Taylor.

Risdon died on November 30, 1894, reportedly of apoplexy (stroke or cerebral hemorrhage) and heart failure. He was 54 years old. Risdon was married to Nettie Crane and had two daughters. He is buried in Maple Grove. Cemetery in Ravenna, Ohio. 

(Wikipedia; FindaGrave; John H. Eicher and David J. Eicher, <i>Civil War High Commands</i>, 455; <i>The Democratic Press</i>, Ravenna, OH, December 5, 1894)

Orlando Charles Risdon belonged to the following social groups:

