*Telegraph Companies--New Orleans & Ohio Telegraph Lessees and Southwestern Telegraph Company*: Located in Jackson, Mississippi, the South-Western Telegraph Company (also known as the New Orleans & Ohio Telegraph Lessees and Southwestern Telegraph Company) was established by an act of the legislature on February 3, 1860. The South-Western Telegraph Company was one of the primary providers of telegraphy services in the southern Mississippi Valley and the Southwest and had many locations throughout that area. (Robert Harding and Alison Oswald, "Guide to the Western Union Telegraph Company Records," 4; <i>Weekly Mississippian</i>, February 8, 1860)Located in Kentucky, the South-Western Telegraph Company (also known as the New Orleans & Ohio Telegraph Lessees and Southwestern Telegraph Company) was established by an act of the Mississippi State legislature on February 3, 1860. The South-Western Telegraph Company was one of the primary providers of telegraphy services in the southern Mississippi Valley and the Southwest and had many locations throughout that area. (Robert Harding and Alison Oswald, "Guide to the Western Union Telegraph Company Records," 4; <i>Weekly Mississippian</i>, February 8, 1860)Located in Louisville, Kentucky, New Orleans & Ohio Telegraph Lessees was a telegraph company established between 1857 and 1860. New Orleans & Ohio Telegraph Lessees were the primary providers of telegraphy services in the southern Mississippi Valley and the Southwest. On February 3, 1860, the Mississippi State House amended the act which incorporated the New Orleans & Ohio Telegraph Lessees, changing the company's name to Southwestern Telegraph Company. (Robert Harding and Alison Oswald, "Guide to the Western Union Telegraph Company Records," 4; <i>Weekly Mississippian</i>, February 8, 1860)Located in Mobile, Alabama, the South-Western Telegraph Company (also known as the New Orleans & Ohio Telegraph Lessees and Southwestern Telegraph Company) was established by an act of the legislature on February 3, 1860. The South-Western Telegraph Company was one of the primary providers of telegraphy services in the southern Mississippi Valley and the Southwest and had many locations throughout that area. (Robert Harding and Alison Oswald, "Guide to the Western Union Telegraph Company Records," 4; <i>Weekly Mississippian</i>, February 8, 1860)

*Green, Norvin, 1818-1893*: Norvin Green was a physician and businessman, most notably associated as a leading executive of Western Union in the late nineteenth century. Born in New Albany, Indiana, on April 17, 1818, Green moved to Kentucky as a child and gained experience working on the Ohio River as a young man. He financed his own education at the University of Louisville, receiving a degree in medicine in 1840. Green also married Martha English of Kentucky in 1840. The couple had five children over the course of their marriage.

Green practiced medicine in Louisville during the 1840s before getting into local politics. In 1850, he won an election to the Kentucky House of Representatives, and served in office until 1853. Upon leaving office, Green received an appointment to oversee construction of a federal customs house and post office in Louisville. Perhaps because of this project, he took a strong interest telegraphy. He started the Southwestern Telegraph Company to connect Louisville to New Orleans, and in 1857 moved to New York to expand his career in telegraph development. Over the next nine years, Green helped bring together various small telegraph companies to form Western Union in 1866. He initially served as vice president of the new corporation, rising to president in 1878 (upon the death of William Orton). Green also formed the American Institute of Electrical Engineers with Thomas Edison and Alexander Graham Bell in 1884. Attesting to his status among these powerful figures, Green was elected the institute’s first president. Green died on February 13, 1893. He is buried at Cave Hill Cemetery in Louisville, Kentucky. (Wikipedia)

*Kentucky--Jefferson County. Louisville*: Located in Jefferson County, Louisville was founded in 1779 in what was then Kentucky County, Virginia (now extinct). It became a part of Jefferson County when it was created on November 1, 1780 and was incorporated that same year. Jefferson County became part of Kentucky upon the state's creation on June 1, 1792. Louisville serves as the county seat. (Britannica; Wikipedia; Atlas of Historical County Boundaries)

*Mississippi--Copiah County. Hazlehurst*: Located in Copiah County, Hazlehurst was founded as early as November 3, 1865. In April 1872, it replaced Gallatin as the county seat and remains so today. (Wikipedia; Atlas of Historical County Boundaries)

*Pettus, John Jones, 1813-1867*: John Jones Pettus was Mississippi's governor during the first three years of the Civil War.  Born in Wilson County, Tennessee, on October 9, 1813, Pettus moved to Limestone County, Alabama, as a child. In 1835, he  moved to Mississippi and eventually began a law practice in Scooba, Mississippi. He married Permelia Winston in the 1840s. She passed away in 1857, and in 1861 Pettus married Susan Hewell.

Pettus began pursuing a political career in the mid-1840s, first serving as a state representative for Kemper County. He won a state Senate election in 1848 and by 1853 had risen to president of the Mississippi Senate. Then, in January 1854, Governor Henry S. Foote resigned in protest before Governor-elect John J. McRae was inaugurated. Pettus’ position in the Senate placed him next in line to fill the governor’s vacancy, and he was sworn in as Mississippi’s interim executive on January 7, 1854. He served in that role for only three days, before McRae was inaugurated on January 10.

Pettus won the governor’s election in 1859. By that time, he had become a notable secessionist. He advocated for the creation of an independent Confederacy dedicated to preserving slavery. When Abraham Lincoln was elected president in 1860, Pettus called forth a special legislative session in Mississippi and pressed state representatives to hold a secession convention. His efforts succeeded, as such convention assembled in January 1861 and voted in support of secession, declaring the State of Mississippi out of the Union. Pettus won reelection for governor in 1861 and served until his term ended in 1863. Mississippi’s Constitution had a two-term limit for the governor’s office, leaving Pettus unable to run again. He took a commission as a colonel in the Mississippi State Troops and served until the end of the war. Shortly thereafter, Pettus moved to Arkansas. He applied for a presidential pardon according to President Andrew Johnson’s Reconstruction policies, but was denied three times. Pettus died of pneumonia on January 25, 1867.  He is buried in Flat Bayou Cemetery, Jefferson County, Arkansas. (Wikipedia; FindaGrave)

*Hinds, Howell*: 

*Mississippi--Hinds County. Jackson*: Located in Hinds County, Jackson was founded in 1821. It serves as one of two Hinds County seats (along with Raymond), and is the state capital of Mississippi. (Britannica; Mississippi Encyclopedia; Atlas of Historical County Boundaries)

*Hinds, Mrs. Howell*: 

