*Mississippi--Tallahatchie County. Charleston*: Located in Tallahatchie County, Charleston was founded as early as 1837 and serves as a county co-seat. (Wikipedia; Rowland, <i>Mississippi</i>, 395; Atlas of Historical County Boundaries)

*Military Procedures & Events--Recruiting and enlistment*: At the outbreak of the American Civil War in 1861, neither the Union nor the Confederate army struggled to find recruits. Rather, both armies saw far more volunteers than their ranks and provisions could sustain. Many young men of the North and South believed that the war would end quickly and volunteered by the thousands to not miss out on the action. Other motivators for rapid enlistment included a sense of adventure, defense of slavery or the privileges of whiteness, defense of the Union, fear of ostracism in their home communities for not enlisting, or a desire to protect their homes and families. 

Widespread enlistment required both the United States and Confederate governments to reshape their militaries that were otherwise unprepared to handle that many recruits. The U.S. possessed only a small standing army of 16,000 men before the war, and the Confederacy needed to build its own from scratch. Both therefore relied heavily on local recruiting to organize men into militia companies then employable in the federal service. Recruiters throughout the war published pamphlets, put up posters, and gave speeches to encourage men to fight. 

As the war continued, dreams of a short war ended along with many men's desires to enlist. Both armies (the Confederacy in 1862 and the Union in 1863) resorted to conscription to fill their ranks. Free African Americans, particularly in the North, debated the utility and wisdom of fighting for the United States even after being legally allowed to do so in 1863. Many formerly enslaved African-American men yearned to fight for their own freedom, while others doubted that military service in the Civil War would accomplish their desired goals of emancipation and equality. However, prominent African Americans such as Frederick Douglass encouraged Black men to take up arms, and roughly 200,000 did so. 

Ultimately, men enlisted during the Civil War for many reasons, often tied to demographic or personal causes, and, as the war progressed and varied in its popularity and aims, recruiters' tactics likewise changed to adapt to each new situation. (Encyclopedia of Arkansas)

*Confederate States of America. Army. Cavalry*: The term cavalry referred to horse-mounted soldiers. Although cavalry was a fundamental part of Civil War armies, by the American Civil War, weapons and tactics limited the role cavalry soldiers played on the battlefield. Disciplined infantry soldiers in tight ranks with muskets and bayonets could repel cavalry charges. Therefore, Civil War armies typically used the speed and mobility of cavalry troops for scouting and raiding behind enemy lines. Additionally, cavalry soldiers could fight on foot in loose, or skirmish, formations to harass enemy positions or delay enemy attacks. Overall, because cavalry units required greater logistical support in order to feed and care for their horses, and due to their relatively limited role in open battle, cavalry units made up a much smaller part of the army than their infantry counterparts. 

Confederate cavalrymen enjoyed a reputation of superiority over their Union counterparts during the first half of the Civil War. One popular explanation for this is that Confederate cavalry soldiers often had to provide their own horses (something less common in the Union army) and therefore were more experienced and comfortable with their steeds. Two other theories are that Southern aristocratic culture placed higher value on horsemanship than northern communities, and that men who grew up in the South’s largely agricultural society were more familiar with horses than those from the industrial North. All of these explanations may have some merit, but exaggerate the differences between North and South, and cannot account for any great disparity in cavalry actions within the Civil War.

More important reasons for Confederate cavalry’s positive reputation included some high-profile leaders and notable early war victories. J.E.B. Stuart’s battlefield success in the Eastern Theater during the first two years, coupled with his flamboyant style, made him and his horse soldiers celebrities in the South, while other cavalry commanders, like John Hunt Morgan, John Singleton Mosby, and Nathan Bedford Forrest, used aggressive and rapid cavalry raids to disrupt northern supply lines, defeat isolated federal troops, and generally tie up exponentially larger Union forces. Despite these early and famous Confederate successes, Union cavalry forces improved in quality and quantity during the course of the war, culminating in a fight to a draw at Brandy Station—the largest cavalry battle in North America—in June 1863. During the last two years of the war, Confederate cavalry did not enjoy its reputation of dominance, although it still managed to play a large role in scouting, raiding, and resisting Union forces. (Wikipedia)

*Harper, H. J.*: 

*Pettus, John Jones, 1813-1867*: John Jones Pettus was Mississippi's governor during the first three years of the Civil War.  Born in Wilson County, Tennessee, on October 9, 1813, Pettus moved to Limestone County, Alabama, as a child. In 1835, he  moved to Mississippi and eventually began a law practice in Scooba, Mississippi. He married Permelia Winston in the 1840s. She passed away in 1857, and in 1861 Pettus married Susan Hewell.

Pettus began pursuing a political career in the mid-1840s, first serving as a state representative for Kemper County. He won a state Senate election in 1848 and by 1853 had risen to president of the Mississippi Senate. Then, in January 1854, Governor Henry S. Foote resigned in protest before Governor-elect John J. McRae was inaugurated. Pettus’ position in the Senate placed him next in line to fill the governor’s vacancy, and he was sworn in as Mississippi’s interim executive on January 7, 1854. He served in that role for only three days, before McRae was inaugurated on January 10.

Pettus won the governor’s election in 1859. By that time, he had become a notable secessionist. He advocated for the creation of an independent Confederacy dedicated to preserving slavery. When Abraham Lincoln was elected president in 1860, Pettus called forth a special legislative session in Mississippi and pressed state representatives to hold a secession convention. His efforts succeeded, as such convention assembled in January 1861 and voted in support of secession, declaring the State of Mississippi out of the Union. Pettus won reelection for governor in 1861 and served until his term ended in 1863. Mississippi’s Constitution had a two-term limit for the governor’s office, leaving Pettus unable to run again. He took a commission as a colonel in the Mississippi State Troops and served until the end of the war. Shortly thereafter, Pettus moved to Arkansas. He applied for a presidential pardon according to President Andrew Johnson’s Reconstruction policies, but was denied three times. Pettus died of pneumonia on January 25, 1867.  He is buried in Flat Bayou Cemetery, Jefferson County, Arkansas. (Wikipedia; FindaGrave)

*Mississippi--Hinds County. Jackson*: Located in Hinds County, Jackson was founded in 1821. It serves as one of two Hinds County seats (along with Raymond), and is the state capital of Mississippi. (Britannica; Mississippi Encyclopedia; Atlas of Historical County Boundaries)

