*Holidays and Observances--Thanksgiving Day* (ID: 32098384): Celebrated since 1789, Thanksgiving became a federal holiday in the United States on June 28, 1870 and is celebrated annually on the fourth Thursday of the month of November. It originated as a day set aside for the giving of thanks for a bountiful harvest but also functions as a celebration of American nationalism. For instance, it is often celebrated with large gatherings centered around a meal consisting of foods indigenous to North America, such as turkey, potatoes, squash, and corn, among other foods. (Wikipedia) Throughout the American Civil War, both the Union and Confederacy celebrated days of thanksgiving at home and in the field. Its celebration was a vital component of Union and Confederate nationalism, and connected both region's to its colonial era history. Touted as a way to unify a divided country, President Abraham Lincoln issued a Thanksgiving Day Proclamation on October 3, 1863 that made it a federal holiday. (Wikipedia; "Proclamation, 1863," Gilder Lehrman Institute of American History)

*Campbell, John A. (John Allen), 1835-1880* (ID: 32115227): 

*Wyoming--Executive Department* (ID: 32098421): Created in 1890, the executive branch of the State of Wyoming is headed by the Governor and also includes the Secretary of State, both of which are elected to serve a four-year term. The executive department also consists of the Wyoming State Treasurer, the Wyoming Attorney General, and the Wyoming Superintendent of Public Instruction. The primary duties of the executive branch of the State of Wyoming are to ensure the laws of the state are preserved, enact new legislation, and to command the militia. (Wikipedia)

*United States--Executive Department. Office of the President* (ID: 32078185): Operating at the national level, the Office President of the United States is the head of the executive body and is responsible for assuming the role of the Commander in Chief, appointing members of the Cabinet and other federal agencies, and the enforcement of legislation approved by Congress. The first United States President was elected in 1789. ("The Executive Branch," The White House) 

*Wyoming--Laramie County. Cheyenne* (ID: 32098422): Located in Laramie County, Wyoming, Cheyenne was founded in 1867. (Wikipedia)

*Brown, J. B. (Jason Brevoort), 1839-1898* (ID: 32115228): 

*Wyoming--Office of the Secretary of State* (ID: 32098424): Created in 1890, the Office of the Secretary of State of Wyoming is an elected position with a four-year term. The Secretary of State of Wyoming is tasked with overseeing the Administrative Services Division, the Business Division, the Executive Office, the Compliance Division, the Elections Division, and the Technology Division. (Wikipedia; "Duties of the Office of Secretary of State," Wyoming Secretary of State)

