*Mississippi--Hinds County. Jackson*: Located in Hinds County, Jackson was founded in 1821. It serves as one of two Hinds County seats (along with Raymond), and is the state capital of Mississippi. (Britannica; Mississippi Encyclopedia; Atlas of Historical County Boundaries)

*Mississippi--Warren County. Vicksburg*: Located in Warren County, Mississippi, Vicksburg was founded under the name Fort Nogales as early as 1790 in what was then unincorporated territory. In 1798, upon creation of Mississippi Territory, it was renamed Walnut Hills. On April 1, 1799, Walnut Hills became part of the newly created Pickering County (later renamed Jefferson County on January 10, 1802), until the creation of Claiborne County on January 26, 1802. It then became part of its current county of Warren on December 21, 1809. Upon its incorporation on January 29th, 1825, it was renamed Vicksburg. Vicksburg became the county seat in 1836 and remains today. (Rowland, <i>Mississippi</i>, 858; Wikipedia; Britannica; Atlas of Historical County Boundaries)

*Mississippi--Lauderdale County. Meridian*: Located in Lauderdale County, Meridian was founded in 1854 and serves as the county seat. (Wikipedia)

*Railroads and Railroad Companies--Vicksburg and Meridian Railroad (Vicksburg, Miss.)*: The Vicksburg and Meridian Railroad emerged from a reorganization of the Southern Railroad of Mississippi in 1867. Origins of the company date back to the early 1830s and the start of several individual rail lines between Vicksburg and Meridian, Mississippi. These included the Jackson & Brandon Railroad and Bridge Company, which used roughly three hundred enslaved African Americans to build a rail line between Jackson and Brandon, Mississippi, in the 1840s, and the Southern Railroad Company, which purchased the Jackson-Brandon line and then continued construction to Meridian in the 1850s. The line from Meridian to Vicksburg was complete in early 1861, as the Civil War erupted.  The Southern Railroad proved valuable to Confederate forces and southern infrastructure during the war, but was severely damaged by Union forces under Ulysses S. Grant and William T. Sherman during the Vicksburg and Jackson campaigns in 1863. The railroad was repaired after the war, and formally reorganized as the Vicksburg and Meridian Railroad. It was incorporated by the State of Mississippi in 1889 and renamed the Alabama and Vicksburg Railway. (Wikipedia; George M. Crowson, “History of Alabama and Vicksburg R.R.,” The Meridian Speedway)

*Under Review*: We are currently working hard to identify this military unit/organization and hope to have more details for you soon. If you have information, please contact us at cwrgmproject@gmail.com

*Woodson, Emmet L.*: 

