*Davis, A. K. (Alexander Kelso), -1884*: Alexander K. Davis was a representative in the Mississippi legislature and served as the state’s lieutenant governor from 1874 to 1876, during Reconstruction. He was the first African American lieutenant governor of Mississippi.

Little was recorded of Davis’ past. His date and place of birth are not known. During testimony before Congress in 1871 he explained that he moved to Noxubee County, Mississippi, from Tennessee in 1869, and said he had been admitted to the bar (a reference that he had been accepted as a practicing attorney in a city or county), but did not specify in which state. He won a seat in Mississippi’s House of Representatives shortly after coming to Mississippi and became a leading figure in the state’s Republican Party circles. In 1873, Radical Republicans backed by a majority of African American voters in Mississippi, won a series of state elections. Davis was one of three African Americans elected to statewide office that year, winning the lieutenant governor seat. (The other Black figures to win statewide election were James Hill as secretary of state and T. W. Cardozo as state superintendent of education.) The following year, white conservatives carried out a campaign of intimidation and violence to suppress Republican and African American voting and put Democrats into political power. The effort worked and by 1875, Democrats held a majority of state legislative seats. Emboldened by their political power, Democrats tried to rid Republicans from many state positions. They specifically targeted Davis and northern-born and Radical Republican Governor Adelbert Ames, accusing both men of improprieties in office. Davis was charged with illegal granting of pardons. Despite his effort to fight the trumped-up charges, Mississippi Democrats impeached Davis in March 1876. Knowing that the conviction would result in him being removed from office, Davis resigned. Governor Ames, also facing politically-driven impeachment proceedings that would require extensive time and financial resources to fight, resigned as well. Following his resignation, Davis abandoned politics. He moved to Canton, Mississippi and worked as a pastor. He died on November 21, 1884. (Wikipedia; Dernoral Davis, "Alexander K. Davis," Mississippi Encyclopedia; Clyde Tucker, “Alexander K. Davis (?-1884),” Black Past)

*Mississippi--Hinds County. Jackson*: Located in Hinds County, Jackson was founded in 1821. It serves as one of two Hinds County seats (along with Raymond), and is the state capital of Mississippi. (Britannica; Mississippi Encyclopedia; Atlas of Historical County Boundaries)

*Ames, Adelbert, 1835-1933*: Adelbert Ames served as a governor and U.S. senator of Mississippi during the Reconstruction era.  He was born in East Thomaston (modern-day Rockland), Maine, in 1835. As a boy, Ames spent time working on various merchant vessels, receiving training in seamanship. He entered the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1856, graduating in May 1861, at the start of the Civil War. Commissioned as a second lieutenant, the young Ames was promoted to first lieutenant barely over a week later and served with the 5th U.S. Artillery during the battle of First Bull Run at Manassas, Virginia, on July 21, 1861. Despite being wounded in the leg, Ames stayed by his cannons. His actions at Bull Run led him to receive the brevet (honorary) rank of major and, in 1893 (more than thirty years later), the Medal of Honor. 

Ames recovered from his wound and returned to the front lines in 1862, serving with distinction as an artillery officer during the Peninsula Campaign near Richmond. Seeking better promotion potential, Ames sought an infantry command. Through those efforts, in August 1862, he received command of the 20th Maine Infantry Regiment, and led that unit in combat during the Battle of Fredericksburg in December 1862. In May 1863, he volunteered to serve as a staff officer for Major General George G. Meade, which helped him achieve the rank of brigadier general that month. With this promotion, Ames left the 20th Maine to his second-in-command, Lieutenant Colonel Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain, who gained great fame commanding the regiment at Little Round Top during the Battle of Gettysburg in July 1863. Ames’ own performance at Gettysburg was highly praised, as his division successfully defended the Union position at Cemetery Hill. 

After Gettysburg, Ames’ division was transferred to the Department of the South. Over the next two years, he commanded Union troops during campaigns in Florida, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Virginia. He received a brevet promotion to major general for his actions at Fort Fisher, North Carolina, in March 1865.

After the Civil War, Ames became involved in federal Reconstruction efforts. In 1868, he was appointed the provisional governor of Mississippi. Ames proved sympathetic to the plight of African Americans in the south. He sought to protect Black civil rights and appointed Mississippi’s first African American public officials. In 1870, after Mississippi was readmitted into the Union, Ames ran for U.S. senator for the state as a Republican and won. He served in that capacity from February 1870 to January 1874, achieving the reputation as a strong public speaker. While serving as a senator in Washington, D.C., Ames met and married Blanche Butler, daughter of Union general Benjamin F. Butler, under whom Ames had served during the war. Ames and his wife had six children over the course of their marriage.

In 1873, Ames ran for governor of Mississippi. His chief rival was James L. Alcorn, a former Confederate general who had been a Whig before the Civil War and joined the Republican Party afterwards. Ames won the election and worked diligently to improve Mississippi’s financial and social situation. In 1874, Democrats in Mississippi coordinated a campaign of violence against African Americans and white Republicans in the state, to secure political control in Mississippi. Unable to militarily suppress the white supremacist terror campaign, Ames signed a truce with Democratic leaders in Mississippi to reduce the violence and allow a peaceful election. Groups of white supremacists abandoned the truce and resumed their intimidation tactics against Republicans and Black Mississippians during the following elections, leading to a surge of Democratic politicians taking office.

In 1876, the conservative Democrat majority in the Mississippi legislature tried to impeach Ames and many other Republican officials with trumped up charges of corruption. Despite a strong political force against him, Ames’ critics were unable to provide any evidence of impropriety. Nevertheless, because impeachment was politically driven, Ames could see that his future as governor was over and any effort on his part to legally defend himself would be personally and financially taxing. He and his attorneys reached an agreement with Democratic leaders to resign his office in exchange for dropping the legal charges. On March 29, 1876, after Democrats cancelled their legal proceedings, Ames vacated his position.

Ames left Mississippi and went into business in Minnesota with his father and brother. A short time later, he relocated to New York City and then Massachusetts, overseeing mills and various business interests. When the Spanish-American War erupted in 1898, Ames volunteered for service and was appointed brigadier general of volunteers. Although over sixty years old, Ames joined the field campaign in Cuba and performed well.

Ames resumed his business ventures in the early twentieth century. He lived until 1933, dying at age 97. He is buried in Lowell, Massachusetts. (Wikipedia)

*Relief & Welfare--Boards of Relief*: "An organization whose purpose is to give money, food, or help to those who need it, or to carry out activities such as medical research that will help people in need, and not to make a profit." (Cambridge Dictionary)

*Sullivan, Thomas C.*: 

*Louisiana--Orleans Parish. New Orleans*: Located in Orleans Parish, New Orleans was founded in 1718. It became the capital of French Louisiana in 1722 and continued as the capital when Louisiana achieved statehood on April 30, 1812. It became part of Orleans County (now extinct) on the same day. In 1849 it was replaced by Baton Rouge as the state capital, although it temporarily served as the capital again from 1865 until 1880. (Wikipedia; Atlas of Historical County Boundaries)

*Morgan, A. T.*: 

*Mississippi--Executive Department*: 

*Barrett, Fred, 1843-1895*: Dr. Fred Barrett was the private secretary of Mississippi governor Adelbert Ames during Reconstruction and a newspaper editor. Born on November 5, 1843, in Clearfield, Pennsylvania, Barrett graduated with a medical degree from Jefferson College in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1866, and practiced medicine in Pennsylvania for two years before moving to Mississippi during the Reconstruction era. He was an active member of the Republican Party and served in the Mississippi legislature for four years, before working as the private secretary of northern-born governor Adelbert Ames. Barrett also became involved in newspaper editing, managing the <i>Southern Republican</i> in the 1870s. 

Barrett received a government job in Washington, D.C., after Reconstruction. He later moved to Wisconsin and then Minnesota, where he operated various newspapers. Barrett died in Tower, Minnesota, in 1895 at the age of 51 from Bright’s Disease. He was married to Caroline Redmond and had four children. He is buried in Lake View Cemetery in Tower, Minnesota. (FindaGrave)

*Secretaries*: 

